iterating-over-data: ports from old core repo (#43)
Ada-Developers-Academy/core-unit-1: iterating-over-data/iterating-over-dictionaries.md

# Iterating Over Dictionaries

## Learning Goals

- Practice using for loops to iterate through a dictionary

## Introduction

> The overall concept for iterating over dictionaries is the same as iterating over lists. We can use `for` loops to iterate over **each key-value pair in a dictionary.**
> 
> However, because dictionaries are key-value pairs, there are a few differences to pay attention to.

Author: ```suggestion
The overall concept for iterating over dictionaries is the same as iterating over lists. We use `for` loops to iterate over each dictionary item.

However, because dictionary items are key-value pairs, there are a few ways that we can iterate over them: **by key-value pair**, **by key alone**, or **by value alone**.
```

Gonna see how it feels to drop your very nice transition sentence.

## `for` Loops for Keys and Values Need `.items()`

To iterate over a dictionary, we can use the following syntax:

```python
for my_key, my_value in my_dict.items():
    print(my_key, my_value)
```

| Piece of Code              | Notes                                                                                                                                                        |
| -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `for`                      | `for` is a reserved keyword in Python. Python recognizes `for` as the beginning of a `for` loop.                                                             |

> | `my_key`                   | **Replace this** part with a name that represents what each key is. This local variable represents the _key_ in each key-value pair, one at a time.          |

Author: ```suggestion
| `my_key`                   | **Replace this** part with a name that represents what each key is. During iteration, this will be a variable that will receive the _key_ in each key-value pair, one at a time.          |
```

> | `my_key`                   | **Replace this** part with a name that represents what each key is. This local variable represents the _key_ in each key-value pair, one at a time.          |

Reviewer: My concern about this phrasing (letting During iteration decorate the whole phrase) is that it's unclear whether the variable is only accessible during the iteration (it isn't).  Maybe this???
```suggestion
| `my_key`                   | **Replace this** part with a name that represents what each key is. This will be used as a variable name that will receive the _key_ in each key-value pair during the iteration, one key at a time.          |
```

> | `my_value`                 | **Replace this** part with a name that represents what each value is. This local variable represents the _value_ in each key-value pair, one at a time.      |

Author: ```suggestion
| `my_value`                 | **Replace this** part with a name that represents what each value is. During iteration, this will be a variable which will receive the _key_ in each key-value pair, one at a time.      |
```

| `my_dict`                  | **Replace this** part with the desired list to iterate over. This can be a variable that holds a list, a list literal, or any expression that becomes a list |
| `.items()`                 | `.items()` is a method that dictionaries have. It returns a view of the dictionary, or a version of the dictionary's key-value pairs that are iterable.      |
| `:`                        | This colon begins the `for` loop's body                                                                                                                      |
| ` print(my_key, my_value)` | **Replace this** with any code that should execute during each loop. This is the loop's body.                                                                |

### About `.items()`

The most unique part about iterating over dictionaries is that we should call `.items()` next to each dictionary when starting the for loop.

Python is unable to iterate over dictionaries as is; `.items()` lets us use the `for` loop with it. If we neglect to add `.items()`, we'll likely get this error:

```bash
ValueError: too many values to unpack (expected 2)

> ```

Author: I'd like to go without including this for C15

And, I have NOT figured out how to make suggestions compatible with code blocks within them 🔥 😡 

I can't recreate your `ValueError` message; I'm going to stick with the original message 1. out of momentum 2. they're hopefully conceptually congruent enough (<- I made up that phrase) that they can be bridged, and I'd rather a student see the less-detailed one and accept the more detailed one as possible, rather than the other way around

> ```

Reviewer: Weird... Out of curiosity, what code were you running?  I did 
```python
my_dict = { 'a': 0, 'b': 1}
for k, v in my_dict:
    print(k, v)
```

And to stick with the shorter content, I'd still make some suggestions, specifically targeted at focusing the material on the iteration described here being the key-value pairs. For instance, Python _is_ able to iterate over dictionaries without .items(), it just iterates over keys.  Maybe something like this?

==================

The most unique part about iterating over dictionary key-value pairs is that we must use `.items()` with the dictionary when starting the `for` loop. Notice that it appears right after the dictionary variable, with no space in between.

This syntax is required because Python doesn't iterate over the _items_ of a dictionary by default. `.items()` informs the dictionary that we'd like to use the key-value pairs in the `for` loop instead of the dictionary's default behavior. If we neglect to add `.items()`, we'll likely get this error:

```bash
ValueError: too many values to unpack (expected 2)
```

}
```

##### !end-question

##### !options

*
```python
for drink_type in drink_menu.keys():
  print(drink_type)
```

*
```python
for drink_type in drink_menu.values():
  print(drink_type)
```

*
```python
for drink_type, drink in drink_menu.items():
  print(drink)
```

##### !end-options

##### !answer

*
```python
for drink_type in drink_menu.keys():
  print(drink_type)
```
##### !end-answer

### !end-challenge
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- Question 2 -->

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
### !challenge

* type: checkbox
* id: c5a6748a-ad7e-4f50-93d4-f8d72e9f0f2a
* title: Iteration Practice 2

##### !question

Which option will print the values of this menu dictionary?

```python
dessert_menu = {
    "ice cream": "Vanilla Bean",
    "cake": "Chocolate Lava Cake",
    "pie": "Apple Pie"
}
```
##### !end-question

##### !options

*
```python
for dessert in dessert_menu.values():
  print(dessert)
```
*
```python
for category, dessert in dessert_menu.items():
  print(dessert)
```

##### !end-options

##### !answer

*
```python
for dessert in dessert_menu.values():
  print(dessert)
```
*
```python
for category, dessert in dessert_menu.items():
  print(dessert)

> ```

Author: Good thought-- I'll keep in mind to track this question specifically, let's try C15 with it now! I'm very into teaching "what is syntactically possible" as a separate lesson besides "best solution" (obviously shouldn't teach blatant anti-patterns, but atm this is a syntax bridge I'd like students to be able to read, with less emphasis on evaluation)
